I think our side drawer is making really good progress here.
Now one functionality we have learned about in vanilla web components which we haven't implemented here
though is that we can also work with methods in our component that we can call from outside of this
component. Use case would be that in index.html, we might want to open the side drawer, not by setting
this property which is absolutely fine but maybe also by calling some method, sideDrawerOpen, like
this. Now
currently, we have no such method but of course we can add one in the side drawer, right.
So here we can add an open method like that
and then here, we can set this open to true,
right.
Remember this
open, this is our property here with the prop decorator right there which is mutable, so we can change it from
inside
and this makes sense if you have properties like this one which can be changed from in and outside
and now, I have my open method.
The problem is open is also the name of this property, hence I get an error here
and therefore, I will actually rename this property to opened,
so in all the places where I have this.open, I'll set it to this.opened and of course also in the CSS code,
I now have to watch for the opened attribute being present
and now open is a valid name.
Now if I save this with this method added, if I open the side menu, I get an error, side drawer open is
not a function. By the way, it doesn't have this, a function named like this.
The thing is behind the scenes, stencil translates your code you have
here into vanilla web component code but it does not necessarily keep the names of your methods and
so on,
it also moves your code around and therefore, this is actually not a publicly exposed method of your
web component.
If you want to create such a method though, you can easily do so. You can add another decorator above
or in front of this method name
and that is the method decorator, this also needs to be imported from @stencil/core.
Now we add it in front of the method which should become a public method and in front of course could
also be done like this,
it's just a convention that for methods, you add it above it just as you add component above of your class.
And now with add method added here,
this suddenly is a publicly available method.
So with this little change, with the method decorator added, if we reload,
now we don't get this error anymore. But it's also not working,
the reason for that can be found in the index.html file though, here I'm checking whether side
drawer open is true,
well I rename this to opened,
right,
so we should rename it there too.
With that change if I reload,
now this works, just as before.
So now we also learned how we can add methods and now we can really create rich web components with
a broad API where people can interact with them through attributes, by setting properties or calling
methods.
And it's not that uncommon that you expose multiple ways of interacting with your component to give
your users, your consumers, the developers using your web components different consumption methods.